= background_queue

This is a gem to manage background tasks. The primary focus is organising the tasks so they will not overload the machine(s) running the tasks, while
still giving a fair, balanced allocation of running time to members in the queue.

== Queue Management
* Each task on the queue is associated with an 'owner', 'subject' and 'id'
* Each subject has a priority (0=highest).
* An 'owner' has a queue of 'subjects' which is a queue of tasks.

=== Finding the next task to run
1. Get the next owner with the highest priority subject
2. Get the next subject within the above owner with the highest priority
3. Pop the next task off the subject queue.
4. Push the subject to the end of the owners subject queue.
5. Push the owner to the end of the queue.

== Worker Managment
* The actual workers are implimented using passenger.
* The queue calls the passenger server(s) through HTTP.
* The queue limits the number of simultaneous workers at any one time.
* Using passenger to manage the workers means workers are efficiently re-used, with a full Rails enviroment loaded and ready to go.
* Library methods are called from within the worker to co-ordinate the status of the worker.



== Contributing to background_queue
 
* Check out the latest master to make sure the feature hasn't been implemented or the bug hasn't been fixed yet.
* Check out the issue tracker to make sure someone already hasn't requested it and/or contributed it.
* Fork the project.
* Start a feature/bugfix branch.
* Commit and push until you are happy with your contribution.
* Make sure to add tests for it. This is important so I don't break it in a future version unintentionally.
* Please try not to mess with the Rakefile, version, or history. If you want to have your own version, or is otherwise necessary, that is fine, but please isolate to its own commit so I can cherry-pick around it.

== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2012 MarkPent. See LICENSE.txt for
further details.

